README.md, before:

# Midi-To-Shawzin
*This project is still being developed, thank you for your patience*

This simple, lightweight, and portable python script allows you to play the Warframe shawzin through any USB-MIDI input compliant device connected to your computer.

By acting as a keymapper it converts your MIDI signals into Shawzin compatible strumming (ie. Waterfret2)

Typically when playing the Shawzin as DE intended you mark frets with the arrow keys, and stum with 1-3. Using Midi-to-shawzin lets you map that onto a MIDI-device!

Across all 9 scales, the effective range is C4 to D#6. However by design, it is impossible to play a B5 without bending notes with the whammy button.
This is not an issue when playing within the provided scales.

All in-game musical scales are supported:
- Pentatonic Minor
- Pentatonic Major
- Chromatic
- Hexatonic
- Major
- Minor
- Hirajoshi
- Phrygian
- Yo

Midi-To-Shawzin is a free and open-source fan-made project for musicians from beginner to expert to enjoy.

*If this is something that you end up liking, I may add the ability to load MIDI-files in too!*

# Features
- Shawzin pitch-bending
- Music scale select
- Free play mode

# Technical
*If this project is well received then I will add options for this to be built into executable scripts for ease of use to all.*

To execute the program, simply run "main.py" and follow the console instructions.

## Pip packages
You may require to install several pip modules
```
pygame
pynput
```

## Issues
During testing I have found that the default key for switching musical scales 'Tab' is a little "stiff". Whilst Midi-to-Shawzin provides a keybinding to switch between scales, sometimes desyncronising what scale is being played.
Since there is no way to get feedback on what scale is being played, this is just a problem that may occur.

Commit message:

scale switch tab change works as intended

README.md, after:

# Midi-To-Shawzin
*This project is still being developed, thank you for your patience*

This simple, lightweight, and portable python script allows you to play the Warframe shawzin through any USB-MIDI input compliant device connected to your computer.

By acting as a keymapper it converts your MIDI signals into Shawzin compatible strumming (ie. Waterfret2)

Typically when playing the Shawzin as DE intended you mark frets with the arrow keys, and stum with 1-3. Using Midi-to-shawzin lets you map that onto a MIDI-device!

Across all 9 scales, the effective range is C4 to D#6. However by design, it is impossible to play a B5 without bending notes with the whammy button.
This is not an issue when playing within the provided scales.

All in-game musical scales are supported:
- Pentatonic Minor
- Pentatonic Major
- Chromatic
- Hexatonic
- Major
- Minor
- Hirajoshi
- Phrygian
- Yo

Midi-To-Shawzin is a free and open-source fan-made project for musicians from beginner to expert to enjoy.

*If this is something that you end up liking, I may add the ability to load MIDI-files in too!*

# Features
- Shawzin pitch-bending
- Music scale select
- Free play mode

# How to use
1. Launch Warframe
2. Bind Shawzin to gearwheel
3. Equip Shawzin
4. Launch 'main.py' from terminal
5. Follow on-screen prompts to bind music scale select and the whammy bar
6. You will now be in Pentatonic Minor scale by default
7. Enjoy!

# Technical
*If this project is well received then I will add options for this to be built into executable scripts for ease of use to all.*

To execute the program, simply run "main.py" and follow the console instructions.

## Pip packages
You may require to install several pip modules
```
pygame
pynput
```

## Issues
During testing I have found that the default key for switching musical scales 'Tab' is a little "stiff". Whilst Midi-to-Shawzin provides a keybinding to switch between scales, sometimes desyncronising what scale is being played.
Since there is no way to get feedback on what scale is being played, this is just a problem that may occur.
